For our next three queries,
we're going to switch to the terrorist
data set that we had used in
our previous demonstration.
Our first query involves finding
the types of a particular node.
So, as you may recall in the terrorist
data set there were node types
corresponding to a country.
So, in this case we
want to match all nodes,
where the name is equal to Afghanistan.
And we will return the labels for
that particular match.
And the results for
this query are relatively simple.
The label for the node named Afghanistan
is country, as you might expect.
Next, we're going to do something
similar but with an edge.
In this case, we want to find the label
of a edge associated with
a node named Afghanistan.
And also, if you can recall from that
particular network, the label for
an edge associated with a country named
Afghanistan would be an IS_FROM label.
And the final query, we would like to
demonstrate with this terrorist data set,
involves finding all of
the properties of a node.
Now, based on how we defined
our data import script,
we defined all of our
nodes to be of type Actor.
So in this query, we're going to
search for all nodes of type Actor and
then, we're going to return all of the
properties associated with those nodes.
But, since there are thousands of nodes,
we're going to limit
the results to the first 20.
So, let's go ahead and submit our query.
And here are the results.
Each node represents a terrorist and
if we look at the rows data
behind the scenes we can see the various
properties associated with each node.
Each node has a name.
Each node has aliases,
one or more aliases.
And they have a type property.
Now, depending on how we defined our
import script in the first place,
these nodes could have
different types of properties.
In this case, we only defined them
to have three different properties.
For our next two queries,
we're going to use a different data set,
it's a biological data set consisting
of genetics data representing
interactions between genes.
We will be providing the data for
you to download.
In fact, there are two separate data sets.
One is a complete data set
consisting of 250,000 rows,
and the other data set consists
of the first 50,000 rows,
and that's what we'll be using for
this demonstration.
So, let's take a look at
a small sample of the data.
Here you see a graph network
in which each node is a gene.
And each edge represents
the association between genes.
To load this data set, this is the smaller
data set, required 1446 seconds,
and it consists of 9656 labels and
46621 relationships.
So, the first query involves finding
loops in the data which represent genes
that have associations
with there own types.
So, it's a very simple query
in which the source node and
the target node are the same and we'll
be returning those along the edges and
we'll limit our results to the first ten.
So, here are the results of our query.
We can see a few different loops.
If we look at the rows, our query returned
not only the node but the edge type.
So, on the left we see the particular
gene and on the right,
we see the type of association.
And there are a range of different types.
So, this data set also
contains multigraphs.
If you recall from a previous lecture,
the definition of a multigraph
is any two nodes which have two or
more edges between them.
So in this case, we'll be matching
two separate node edge relationships.
And we'll apply a constraint in which
the edges must be different for
the same pairs of nodes.
And then we will return those nodes and
those edges.
We'll limit our results to the first ten.
And here's the results.
Here we see a set of four genes, and
there are two pairs that have three
edges between them and another pair
that has four edges between them.
Our final query addresses something that
is not necessarily been fully covered
in previous lectures, but
it is useful enough to address here and
you'll get an understanding of it by
going through this query example.
We're going to essentially
extract a subset of nodes and
edges from the graph that
we've been working with.
And this is called an induced subgraph.
In which, if we provide a set of nodes,
we want to return
the network that consists only of those
nodes and their associated edges.
So, my first line of code is very
familiar, we're matching nodes and
edges, it's a very basic node and
edge match.
The second line of code is where
the constraints are explicitly stated.
A resulting network must consist
of edges in which the source node
must be constrained to this
subset of node labels.
And the target node must also be
constrained to be a part of the subset of
nodes with just these labels.
And then we return the nodes and
the edges.
So, let's see the resulting graph.
And here it is.
So, as we would expect,
we're seeing the five nodes that were
defined in our query constraints.
And the edges corresponding to them,
retain the network structure.
So, this concludes our review of
some of the basic queries you can do
with Neo4j using the cipher
scripting language.